I like to think of breath first search as a water flooding from the top.
Kind of like this where we check from the top all the way down.
And I like to think of breath for a search as these little lines that go one as deep as they can and
then they keep going to the right.
But what is the advantage over the other.
They both do the same thing traversal.
But each one is used for different reasons.
And in the interviews you'll get questions about what type of traversal to do.
And usually you'll have one of these two answers that you have to say.
So when should you use one over the other and we're going to explore that throughout the next couple
of videos.
But I want to start off with the main pros and cons the time complexity for breath.
First search and DEP first search is the same right.
They all visit the nodes at least once.
So it's all over an altar versal is all then.
So when we're trying to traverse through a tree or a graph we're really trying to do is walk through
the tree without ever repeating ourselves and the order is the thing that matters when it comes to breath
for search and depth first search.
Now let's talk about breadth first search with breadth first search.
It's very good for finding the shortest path between a starting point and any other reachable node because
we always start off with the root node and then search the closest nodes first and then the nodes further
and then further and then further.
And this is going to become more apparent when we talk about graph traversal and we have some videos
specifically for this discussion but the one downside with breadth first search is that it requires
more memory than depth first search.
Again something we'll discuss more of when we start coding it.
But a good rule of thumb is that if you have additional information on the location of the target node
and you know that the node is likely in the upper level of a tree then breadth first search is better
because it will search through the closest nodes first.
On the other hand depth first search is the opposite.
If you know that the node is likely at the lower level of a tree perhaps death per search is better
in that case.
And death first search is really good at asking the question.
Does the path exist to us or not from a source know to a target note again something we'll get more
into when we talk about graphs.
The big advantage with depth first search is that it uses less memory then breadth first search.
The downside with depth first search is that it can get slow especially if the tree or graph is really
really deep and it's not necessarily good at finding the shortest path.
Like breath for search.
Now that we have an idea of when to use what I know it's not 100 percent yet we're getting there.
But first I want to do a bit of an exercise.